Received the phone call, inviting myself and some other brothers back to Brooklyn, New York in October of 2012.
We were the branches planning a international convention in the year 2014.
We needed a venue, we needed adequate parking, we needed adequate hotel space,
and all of those pieces had to fit together in one location.
The full scope of it was explained to us.
I just remembered going back to my room that night and says,
what's going to happen?
To have 16 international conventions, and then with five of the weekends,
having dual cities going on at the same time, and each one streaming to various regionals.
But also to understand the importance of talking to more than just management of a facility,
to go to city government, to go to convention bureaus, the hotel community,
the restaurant community.
25 years since we've been in the area, we don't know them, they don't know us.
How are we going to realistically meet these challenges based on the deadlines that we have?
Well, there are literally hundreds of brothers involved.
There was a whole team working on nothing but hotels.
There was a contract team working with government officials, home land security,
city officials and the like, and building management.
There were some concerns because it is an organization that we haven't dealt with in the past.
And generally speaking, we reserved the asset for sports related activities.
We've investigated some of the major facilities here in Atlanta.
And they've been too pricey at various kinds of restrictions, obstacles we had to overcome.
We didn't have a lot of success in downtown Atlanta.
It's not in Atlanta Falcons football game, it's certainly not a college football game.
This is a different type of event that has a lot of different challenges.
So overcoming the first logistic of actually being able to provide dates was the biggest hurdle.
They'll be using Ford Field, which is a great facility.
They're going to have 45,000 people.
The parking that's going to be required is tremendous.
This is the first time that we've ever hosted a large-scale religious event or convention at the stadium.
Well, there was a lot of things that we had to figure out.
The type of video systems they had, how to interact with the audio system.
We needed to go see the airport management people at the three airports in Washington DC
to see what their protocol was for us to have a welcome committee at the airports when the flights arrived.
And as we spoke to all the major hotels down here, they were a little reluctant to give us what we wanted.
Most conventions do not follow through on their room blocks, and they didn't believe us.
Well, we've never done anything this large on this type of a scope, technology-wise.
The challenges that we had to overcome are a little unique to Jehovah Witnesses because of your ability to self-serve.
The challenge was getting everybody to ride mod, rather than drive their own automobiles.
The first things that we did was to help them appreciate that Jehovah's Witnesses are different as a client.
And not pushing a contract right away, beginning their confidence.
And once they saw that we were real, we're genuine, we're honest, we're different.
And because of who we are than anybody else, they began to trust us.
And that trust grew and grew and grew.
We talked about this concept of a partnership.
So we're not here with Hatten Hand.
We're here to say what we can do to benefit you as well as you benefit us.
Nobody's been pushy, so this is one of the more pleasurable events that I've had the experience of working with.
They needed to know that we were equal to the task.
This is not something is the first time for us.
We'd hold annual conventions, 300 plus a year in the United States.
We're the largest convention meeting organization, not only here, but throughout the world.
We let them know right away that we wanted to cooperate with them.
It came to see me and suggested they wanted to have a big convention here.
And I said yes, I took them down to meet the city manager and he said yes.
I didn't hear anything else until the convention started.
So they just did all the work in the background and it was no hassle for us.
The community knows the financial advantages, but the University of Washington was extremely interested in our program.
And the fact that we taught family values how to become better parents, better children.
This is a perfect type of event for our city.
Arlington and AT&T Stadium is really a very unique place to have a convention like the Jova's Witness Convention here.
One of the good things about having the your convention in Houston is that we've got some great venues for that.
Certainly this event cannot be housed in a small hotel ballroom or certainly one of the small kingdom halls.
And so there's a lot of coordination and enormous amount of details.
And working with the Jova's Witnesses organization, you'll never find a group that takes on so much ownership
as the Jova's Witnesses do.
We had to count all the bathrooms, all the soap dispensers, trash cans, and recycle bins to the side.
How many volunteers we needed.
We were friendly first. They were friendly in return.
So it's just like we've been taught at the Theocratic Ministry School.
The way you conduct yourself and handle yourself generally can break down some barriers.
Because the governing body, the convention office, they've trained us.
They've always been there for us because of their experience in relying on Jehovah.
They were a phone call away even on the weekends.
The governing body is chosen the places that they want.
And with his help, Jehovah's Spirit, it can be accomplished.
And so we went with a positive attitude and that worked.
Little things have to happen sometimes. Details are critical.
And when those things fall into place, you just say, wow, that didn't just happen all by itself.
It made my job easy how much time and effort that they put into it and how they were willing to do anything
to make sure that it was successful.
The Jehovah's Witness Convention had everything organized very well organized.
The planning was exceptional.
Each day we had something like 300 volunteers in each in the model stations.
With signs on how to direct the friends.
Volunteers have been superb.
So we've appreciated having them here at modern.
We were able to go out and work with parking venues, the city of Detroit, to secure the parking that would be required.
On Thursday prior to the convention starting, we requested a little over 3,000 volunteers.
But we ended up getting over 5,000 brothers and sisters coming in the clean.
Everything was as advertised.
The assistance, the help, the cleaning, all of the capabilities, all of the volunteers were very well prepared and ready to do the job.
It really is the best way for the Jehovah's Witnesses to present their event and to work directly with the venue to help them do that.
It was really, really, really a great thing for us.
They were happy, they had their buckets, they had their rooms.
Who else can say that they're inviting 30,000 of their friends to come to Detroit and they're coming?
We can do that.
And it's very easy to work with people that are honest, that are concise and candid.
I've had the opportunity to work super balls and final fours and with a lot of industry professionals, but this group gets it.
And when we ask for something, they deliver and they deliver above and beyond our expectations.
Not at all, hollow promises or anything very much capable and competent to deliver on what they say they're going to do and articulate what support they may need.
And once those things are agreed to, people do what they say they're going to do.
The attendees that come in are incredible individuals.
It really delivers the type of group, the atmosphere that we love to host here in Arlington.
It's very much of a family atmosphere here.
You have 30,000 people in there that's these learning, learning and actually listening.
Nobody's drunk, nobody's walking around, nobody's spilling food, anything.
No, they're actually sitting and listening and learning.
And they're being polite and kind.
My police chief told me that this is the best behave group he's ever seen at the stadium.
And you ought to be very proud.
Your organization comes in, my whole staff feels good.
The work with everyone.
It has been a phenomenal experience.
All of your attendees are just amazing.
And it's our job to make you guys feel welcome, but it's interesting.
We feel welcomed as well.
And this is our city.
You have a fantastic group of people.
I mean, we've done tons of conventions and we can't say that about most of them.
The people got here and were just very easy to deal with and very pleasant.
So it was a great, great event for us.
We would love the opportunity to host the Jehovah's Witness International Convention every year if we could.
You've definitely left the city in a much better place than you found it.
And we appreciate that whole heart.
And I would encourage any city that you talk to, any official that you talk to, to please call me.
And I'm happy to expound the virtues of having Jehovah Witnesses come to be your city.
I'm convinced that this is history in the making.